---
layout: post
title: "sisters"
author: "Andrew Lazarus"
date: 2016-05-02 15:20:58 +0200
tags:
- games
---

## tldr;

Separated by a giant, you must unite the sisters and decide to save or kill the giant.

---

I've always loved the process of making games. From back when I used to live in Leeds, having a developer live with me was the best thing to ever happen to my curiosity.
It also helped that at the time I was friends with the guys at Rockstar Leeds and spent a bunch of my time commuting home with them.
Since then though, I've only been able to work on games from a design perspective. Either designing how the games work, or creating assets for these games. But none of them ever got past their opening phase, it seemed to always be:

* Get an idea
* Draw up concepts
* Get excited about it
* Project gets put on hold
* I've technically started 5 games, but none of them have ever been playable.
* The knight before - Fast paced running game with triggers
* Dao - Complex board game based on Chinese game of the same name
* Edward Grimm - Pokémon style game based on fairy tales
* Pleasance - Wild west metroidvainia in space
* PirJS - This one is still in development, it’s sort of a RTS game, but not quite.

Each game radically different from the last, but each never quite completed.

To put an end to this streak, I thought I'd put myself in the driving seat and build my own game.

This is that story.





# Game Notes


## Intro

There's a storm outside. It's never normally this heavy though…

Once it passes, you're allowed out to play again

Jessica and Rebecca love catching fireflies after a storm

Running outside with your Jars, you start collecting them.

Once you've collected them all, you both decide to head to your treehouse;
This is where Jessica and Rebecca keep all their collections.

Putting the jar of fireflies in the treehouse is magical, and you both decide to have a nap.

You wake up to voices coming from outside. You peek out your treehouse to see a campfire not too far away. You wake your sister and agree to get closer.

After climbing down the tree, you head over to a large rock, in front of the campsite, perfect cover.

You hear voices talking about how much money they're all going to make when they get back with the heart…

They explain a little more that giant hearts are rare since they've been dying out over the last 100 years, there's only a handful of the left.

Your sister can't hear anything because she's too little, so you give her a boost onto the rock.

The rock creeks, alerting everyone, but suddenly, the ground gives way and the rock falls through the ground with your sister on it.

The ground starts shaking. The camera zooms out to reveal that the whole forest is the giant. 

As it rises, all the characters are thrown into a landslide.

You're all now bundled with mystery campers at the spine of the giant… And they want answers.


## Falling

Into the giants chest; a vast chasm filled with tree roots and darkness.

After being knocked out by the fall, Rebecca wakes to a small boy staring at her

After some clever dialog, the boy explains that he's been down there for a very long time and would like to help Rebecca, in return, he just wants to see the outside world.


---

## Mechanics

### Dialog

The characters don't speak, they make sounds, almost nonsensical, subtitles will help understand this language.

#### Choices

Ability to gain abilities. Only one at a time. Look at peter in Heroes, season 4.

Much like pokémon, your first initial choice determines which ability you start the game with. While none of them are lesser than  the other, they allow you to access different levels at different times.

#### Gameplay

2.5D platform, side scrolling with elements of 3D landscapes and focal points.

Progression system of gaining abilities – as the game develops, the sisters learn more about their connection 
with the giant, and understand how it has influenced their lives. Being born on the back of a giant 

The treehouse is home to the sisters collection of strange and interesting artefacts.

#### Motive

Save your sister, help thieves steal the heart of a giant


## Location

Based in the middle of Norway; where forest and trees are the main component of the area.
The main characters live with their grandmother in a humble wooden house.

The sisters have a treehouse in the forest where they spend their days collecting weird artefacts.

Giants are half submerged in the ocean, land is a giant. Death of a giant = area level rise…


---

The heart of a giant is a very mystical thing. Adapt and self preserving.

The heart is presented as small spirit child. Befriended by Rebecca when she broke through the giants chest, 
The Heart agrees to help Rebecca get back to her sister.

Ultimately, she falls in love with the heart, as a brother, as a friend whatever.

Jessica on the other hand, has been fed stories by the hunters that the heart is a deceptive creature,
Turning into what you most desire to ensure it's survival.

When Jessica and Rebecca finally meet up, they both have very different views on how to handle the heart.


-----

Rebecca becomes the heart of the giant - The little boy passes her ability over 

---

Inside The chest is a dark chamber, the heart glowing with a blue mist, the darkness following her, almost like shadow creatures, if you stay in one place, the environment starts creeping in on you, once you start moving again, it spreads out. You can see hands and eyes at the edge of the hearts light

#### Jessica

Strong, independent, fierce. The qualities of a great fighter.

Abilities

Strength based abilities
	- Punch
	- Slam

#### Rebecca

Agile, caring, animal lover

Rebecca's abilities are based around

Abilities

	- Sleep / Petrify
	
---

## Inspiration

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HgbXWt8kM5Q
http://blakemwood.itch.io/dolly
http://mojiken.itch.io/heavenb
http://redsplatgames.itch.io/eron
http://evilion.itch.io/naut
http://xra.itch.io/memory-of-a-broken-dimension
http://svblm.itch.io/the-stranger

#### Honourable Mentions

http://treeoflife.itch.io/clouds-below
http://leapcompanion.itch.io/adventure-of-nomie
http://ditto.itch.io/dagdrom
http://vine.itch.io/cavern-kings
http://d-sun.itch.io/armed-with-wings-rearmed
http://nigaskate.itch.io/unfold
http://electrolyte.itch.io/reprisal-universe




